[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
My guest today said
something very special to me.
He said laughter is a
confirmation of transformation.
Yakov Smirnoff is my guest
and he is from Russia
and he is known as
America's funniest comic.
He's written jokes for U.S.
Presidents, he's performed
with Robin Williams
in feature films,
he's even had his own TV
sitcom called What a Country.
And today we're talking
about giving people the gift
of laughter and how
laughter truly shifts energy.
Hello, welcome.
>> Yakov Smirnoff: Thank you
so much for having me on here.
>> Lisa Garr: I know.
>> Yakov Smirnoff:
It's exciting.
>> Lisa Garr: Very exciting.
>> Yakov Smirnoff: So take me
way back to growing up in Russia
and what on earth made you
decide to come to America?
>> Yakov Smirnoff: Well I grew
up in a very humble environment
so to set the scene okay,
in one apartment nine
families lived together right?
So each family occupies,
and this is how the
communist regime set it up,
was somebody's wealthy
apartment then they took it over
and they put one family
in the living room,
one family in the bedroom,
one family in the den
and everybody had their
room right, and my mom
and my dad shared the bedroom
until I was 26 years old.
>> Lisa Garr: You,
your Mom and your Dad.
>> Yakov Smirnoff: Yeah.
>> Lisa Garr: Wow.
>> Yakov Smirnoff: I'm
not making this up.
When I was a little kid
and my parents wanted
to be romantic they would
send me to look out the window
and then my dad would say so
what do you see in the window?
I said our neighbors
being romantic
and he said how can
you tell and I said
because their son
is looking at me.
And I was the only child
because we had only one window.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: So, so that
was the beginning
but something magical happened
that's totally relevant
to what we are talking
about today.
When I heard my parents
laugh I felt that I was
in the presence of love.
Somehow those two
were synonymous.
They were like, they
go hand in hand.
So I didn't understand what it
was as a child, however I wanted
to hear that laughter
because that gave me a sense
that I was connected to
people the right way.
I was loved.
>> LG: Was there a lot
of laughter going on in
that type of environment or?
>> YS: My parents were able to,
it wasn't a funny
environment as you can imagine.
You're standing in line for
food, you work many, many,
many hours I mean all of those
things were normal there.
However my parents were
able to create the laughter
and again it took me years
later to understand what it was,
then you have to give the right
gifts to one another that,
that created that environment
and then my Dad's sense
of humor was kind of a trigger.
He could trigger
the Mom's laughter
and then I knew everything
was fine.
>> LG: Well your story of
even how you got here was
incredibly loving.
How your, if you could tell us
of how your Dad saved enough
money to come to America.
>> YS: Yeah, yeah.
Well it was a surprise big time
because my Mom was
the bread winner.
Mom was a teacher of
Russian literature
and even though nobody made
a lot of money in Russia,
she was the one that
made it possible.
My Dad was an inventor
and I loved his inventions
but he couldn't sell one
thing to save his life.
I mean no one wanted
to buy anything and
>> LG: Tough crowd probably.
>> YS: Huh?
>> YS: Tough crowd, no, I
think he was just eclectic.
He was just like, he, when we
came to America for example,
would be a visual
invention that he,
he invented a toilet
paper dispenser that held
up to 18 rolls of toilet paper.
So it would go, it
was clear Plexiglas
and it would go all
the way to the top
and when one roll was empty
the other one would just
automatically [inaudible]
and it was very funny
because I said Dad, why would
you want to do that and he said
when you have toilet paper
and you have abundance
you should flaunt it.
You should let everyone
know that you have it.
Because his mentality was we
had no toilet paper in Russia.
So it was like.
So those were the kind of
inventions he would make.
>> LG: The inventions.
>> YS: Right but he
was also very avangard.
He wanted to go to America and
my Mom was scared to death the
because the Russian government
didn't want people to leave
so one time he brought it up
again and my Mom kind of snapped
at him and she said
okay Mr. Big Shot,
even if we got the permission
from the Soviet Union to go,
how could we ever afford it?
And this is when he totally
surprised both my Mom and I.
He went to the kitchen
cupboard, he got a coffee can
that was sitting all the way
in the back and he pried open
that coffee can and
inside there was money,
like rolls of money
stuffed in the coffee can.
And my Mom and I were staring
in disbelief and in shock.
My Mom said where in the
world did you get coffee?
[Laughing] And where is
all this money coming from?
And what was happening, my
Dad after inventing a lot
of crazy gadgets, he invented
something that was successful.
He invented a device that would
test integrity of concrete
and it was a small
device, it hit the concrete
at a certain speed
and leave a mark
and that's how you measure what,
how strong the concrete is.
I didn't know concrete
had integrity.
You know who would tell
you about that right?
So, but, and my Dad didn't want
to tell anyone because he wanted
to keep that secret that
someday he'll make a better life
for his family.
>> LG: Wow, wow.
>> YS: And it was life
changing, life changing.
>> LG: And so you came
to America and then
at what point did you decide
that being a comedian was
a way to make a living.
>> YS: Well I was a comedian
in Russia so, so I was hopeful
that someday I could
make Americans laugh.
However, I didn't speak English.
That's a problem.
So I locked myself in
the room and I watched TV
for three months straight
and then I realized it was
a Spanish station so I had
to start all over again.
But I was very determined
and then I got a job as,
as a bartender and in
the bar I was kind of,
was able to tell people jokes
and they would ask me things
like you know 7 and 7
and I would say it's 14
and they would laugh and you
know and they would ask me
like give me a black Russian
and I would say what's
happening comrade.
You know, you know and
people would get to know me
and they would give me tips
and they would ask me-I had
the name tag and it said Yakov
and they say, Yakov Smirnoff,
and they would say is
that your real name, I said
no it used to be Jack Daniels.
They would laugh again so
that was my training kind
of to start doing comedy.
And then little by little I
got to Hollywood and I came,
I started at the Comedy Store
and this was an incredible
lineup of people at that time.
Robin Williams just hit number
one as Mork and Mindy show
>> LG: Oh yes.
>> YS: On ABC and then David
Letterman was just coming
out to get his own
morning show at that time.
Jay Leno, Billy Crystal,
Richard Pryor.
>> LG: This was in the 80s?
>> YS: It was late
70s, 79, 80, 81.
It was unbelievable.
When I sat there
and I saw that show
of that lineup I said wow I
just died and went to heaven.
I've got to stay
here no matter what.
And I got a job, Mitzi Shore
the owner of the Comedy Store,
gave me a job as a carpenter
there so I could make a living
and little by little
I was getting
to be better on stage and
>> LG: And absorb all the-wow
what a great environment.
And now look, we have pictures
of you with Robin Williams,
with we have Tom
Hanks and you went
into an incredible stratosphere.
>> YS: Yeah, Merrill
Streep and Jack Nicholson.
I mean I did movies with
those people and after working
with me, all of those
actors won an Oscar.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: And I got Oscar
Myer wiener, yes, I got
>> LG: Not much.
Well I mean you went on
to-we have an incredible kind
of promotional reel of what
you accomplished in your life.
Take a look at this.
This is Yakov Smirnoff
in action.
[ Video Playing ]
What, what an incredible career.
How did you get to be
known as, with this phrase
"What a country" which I've
heard you say so many times?
>> YS: You know the audience
kind of picks what they want
to remember and so I was doing
my show and they would come
to me after the show, because
I'd used several expressions,
you know I had a joke about,
you know, I walked in a store
and I always wanted freedom
and I walk in the store
and I see this box
that says New Freedom.
And I'm thinking
>> LG: [Laughing] [Inaudible]
>> YS: Freedom in a box, you
know, what a country, you know?
I bought 15 of them you know?
And
>> LG: Sent them home to your
>> YS: Yes exactly, mailed it
to my friends and everything.
So, so people would catch that
line and they would come to me
and they would say, what
a country, what a country.
So really it was the
audience that picked that
and I just kept repeating that.
>> LG: And then you get a
call from the White House.
>> YS: Yes.
>> LG: What was that like?
Hi this is the White House.
>> YS: Well it was strange
at first because they,
they said we'd like you to
come to Washington and perform
in front of the Bush's.
And I said that will
get me arrested.
What was happening was George
Bush Sr. was the Vice President
for President Reagan, so they
said we need to you come here
to perform in front of
President Reagan's Cabinet.
I said well that's
better than the Bush's.
So I go there and you
can imagine this, let me,
let me kind of set the scene.
This, this was pretty
incredible for a guy who'd been
in America maybe only what, two
years, two and a half years.
>> LG: Wow.
>> YS: Oh my gosh.
>> YS: And, and so they
are, I'm walking in there
and there's security
check and all
of that stuff obviously
happening and, and the officer
who is with me, who
is escorting me is
like being frisked
and I'm going Oh God.
>> LG: I mean this is a joke
>> YS: I'm sweating.
>> LG: A Russian walks
into the White House
>> YS: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> LG: At that time.
>> YS: And I'm sweating there
and then the, the people turn
to me and I'm going oh, here
it goes and the guy looks at me
and goes, I've seen your
Miller Lite commercial.
I said yes, he said
okay come on in.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: No check.
I was like oh my gosh.
>> LG: What a country.
>> YS: Yeah, what a country.
So I go in and so I'm nervous
and, and the President walks in
and introduce me to him and they
said Mr. President this is Yakov
Smirnoff, he's a
Russian comedian
and immediately he looks
at me and says, well,
have you heard this joke, and
he proceeds to tell-he started
and so then now he made me
laugh and I cracked up laughing
and then everybody looks at me,
now this was a very small event,
there was only 18 people,
it was like a State dinner,
and everybody looks at
me, now it's my turn
to entertain the President and
I said Mr. President, you know,
when Americans landed on
the moon that was a big slap
in the face to the
Soviet government.
So [inaudible] called all the
cosmonauts into his office
and said Americans
landed on the moon.
We have to land on the sun.
They said we can't do
that, we'll burn up.
He said do you think I'm stupid?
You land at night.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: And boy was I
happy when they laughed.
So after that it was
just a whole evening,
we were telling jokes
to one another.
>> LG: What an amazing
experience and why even wanted
to meet with you
in the first place.
Did you come to find
that out later?
>> YS: Yeah.
It was, connection was made,
there was someone who saw me
at the Comedy Club in
Washington D.C. and they thought
that my sense of humor with
the President will connect
and it did, and they thought it
would be entertaining to have me
at dinner one way or another.
It was a very interesting dinner
too because it was the night
when Kaddafi was acting up
and President Reagan
sent helicopters to kind
of show the muscle
of America around.
And behind the President for
the whole evening there was an
officer standing
with a football,
and they call it
football, it's a brief case
with all the nuclear codes.
>> LG: Oh my goodness.
>> YS: Yeah, no pressure here.
>> LG: Tense.
>> YS: Yeah and so I'm
sitting in front of him
so the officer is behind, like
you're, he would be behind you
and I'm telling jokes,
the President is laughing,
the officer is not
laughing right?
And I'm worried if I bomb,
he can bomb a lot more
than I could bomb so I had
a lot of pressure on me.
>> LG: [Inaudible] bombing.
So then he subsequently,
someone called and asked you
to write jokes for
the President.
>> YS: Well it was, I
simplify it a little in my show
when I tell the story
but it actually was even a
little bit more than that.
It was, they were planning
for Reagan to go to Russia
and it was a big deal because an
American President had not been
on Soviet soil in
decades, so it was a lot
of pressure on everybody.
So they asked me, would
you consider looking
over the speech he's going to do
there and give us your opinion?
And I'm thinking,
why, who am I to give,
but I said okay,
sure I'll do it.
And so they sent me the
speech and I read through it
and I was not, I
didn't like the speech.
The tone of the speech
was very not friendly.
It was kind of a little
snobby or I don't know,
like we know what we're
doing and you guys don't.
And I grew up there and
I knew that's not going
to go over very well.
So I said look, at the risk of
being audited I'll tell you,
you know, I don't think
this is a good idea
and they said would you
consider re-writing the speech.
Again, my jaw drops and
>> LG: I'm just thinking what
an amazing, things that go
on behind closed doors.
My God.
>> YS: Right, and
I said okay, okay,
and put some jokes in there.
So that was just kind of, okay.
So I re-wrote the speech
and they pretty much used it
the way it was re-written.
>> LG: Well we actually
have a clip.
I found a clip of Reagan
actually telling your jokes,
President Reagan.
Take a look at this.
[ Video Playing ]
See now when I open the show
and you said something to me
in a private conversation
we had a couple of days ago
and you said to me that
laughter is the confirmation
of transformation.
>> YS: Yes.
>> LG: So now what happened
in that room when he went
into speak with Gorbachev?
>> YS: It was remarkable.
I did not know.
I mean I, I did not have
that for a while actually
until I talked to the
interpreter who was
in the room with them.
>> LG: Oh so you
didn't know until later.
>> YS: I did not know until,
and because the changes
started happening
and there was obvious connection
between Gorbachev and Reagan,
you saw it in the news and
they were laughing together,
it was happening.
>> LG: Right.
I remember the images.
>> YS: Yes, and then, so the
interpreter and I said look,
I don't want to pry, I don't
want to know any secrets
but could you please tell me
was there laughter in the room
when they were meeting?
And he said first
two days, none.
They were butting heads because
Gorbachev was telling Reagan how
to run American, Reagan
was telling Gorbachev how
to run Russia.
They were not interested to
hear it and Reagan got fed up
and literally got up
and headed for the door.
But before, and it's actually
in Reagan's biography,
it's one of the stories, you
can pick that up, and he got up,
headed for the door, before he
opened the door he turned around
and he had a big smile on his
face and he extended his hand
to Gorbachev and said
my name is Ronnie.
Can I call you Misha?
Can we just play?
Let's play red rover, red
rover, let McDonald's come over.
Gorbachev laughed, that's how
the Berlin Wall came down.
>> LG: Oh my goodness.
Through-this is a
perfect example
of how connection causes a
transformation that results in,
the end result is laughter.
>> YS: Laughter is just,
it's one way to monitor it
because it's hard to tell a
lot of times what's going on,
but when you hear laughter
you know you're connected the
right way.
>> LG: And this can show up in
so many different
places in life.
It shows up in so
many different places.
>> YS: Every relationship, every
situation, the same, the same.
>> LG: In your life
where have you noticed
that laughter has disappeared in
certain situations in your life?
>> YS: Well I noticed that in
my marriage it was difficult
to admit that, however that
was, it happens very subtle.
I just want people to know that
it doesn't happen overnight
because normally what creates
laughter, and I believe
that strongly, it's the word
gift, g-i-f-t, which stands,
in my opinion, for give,
importance, fun and time.
Give, importance, fun and time.
So those, and I've been
researching because I went back
to college, got my master's
degree in Psychology,
so I've been on this for the
last 12 years because I wanted
to dissect laughter, as a
performer, as a comedian
who does this intentionally,
I do it every day
and I can be sick, I can be
tired or I might not want
to do it but yet I know how.
I get on stage and I give
importance to my audience,
I show up, I give them
fun, my sense of humor,
and I give them my time.
And that results in laughter.
However, in our personal
relationships, a lot of times
in the beginning of the
relationship, we give that.
That's how we get the girl,
that's how we get the guy,
and we say I do it then we don't
because we don't
know what to do.
It doesn't, nobody clarifies
it for us that you need to give
that importance, fun and
time if you want the result.
>> LG: In the honeymoon phase
it's all about that laughter
and giggling together and.
>> YS: Yes and it
happens because at
that time your hormones
are saying,
we're going to make a
baby, come on, come on.
[Multiple speakers]
>> LG: And you want to be
with them all the
time because it's fun.
>> YS: All the time.
I remember when my
wife and I would just,
we were in the honeymoon stage,
oh my goodness, we couldn't wait
to see each other and then
we wouldn't want to leave.
So, and I was in another part
of the world and we would be
on the phone and it didn't
matter how much money it costed,
how much time, we would spend
hours giggling, laughing
and then one of us would
say it's late, we need to go
to sleep and the other person
would, well you hang up first,
no, no, no you hang up.
>> LG: Right, right, right.
>> YS: Did you hang up?
And a year later it would
be like you hang up first.
Hello? Hello?
You know?
>> LG: Click.
>> YS: Exactly.
So all of that happens and
we get busy and it's normal
but laughter would be the
best, really the earliest sign,
if you are not hearing
laughter, pay attention
because that means you're not
giving importance, fun and time.
>> LG: I think about one
of the sweetest sounds
in my world is the
laughter of a child.
It is the best, heart piercing
sound to hear the giggle
of a child or they're being
tickled and that belly laugh
and it is, it's probably
something high up on the charts
of resonance, you know, it's
probably incredibly healing.
>> YS: Well and every child,
this Psychology Today had
the report that every child,
every four year old child
laughs about 300 times a day.
Average adult, only
4 times a day.
>> LG: Oh my goodness.
>> YS: Yeah, and I think it
has to do, if you're really,
I mean you have an intelligent
audience, they can test this,
you cannot create laughter
by tickling yourself.
>> LG: True, no you can't.
>> YS: You can try all you want
but your brain knows it's you
giving that gift to yourself.
That's not a gift.
You're just, it's motion.
But if you let someone
else tickle you then
laughter happens.
>> LG: Yes.
>> YS: So here's the most
profound thing I'm going
to tell you folks.
>> LG: Okay.
>> YS: It takes two to tickle.
>> LG: That is profound.
>> YS: That's as deep
as it's going to get.
>> LG: [Laughing] [Inaudible]
>> YS: But it's true
because you know,
I was trying to figure this out.
Joy, feeling joyful
comes from within you
but happiness comes
from outside.
Somebody can make you happy by
giving you a gift, importance,
fun and time, and laughter
would be result of that.
So it takes another person
to actually give you a gift.
Gift, you can buy
yourself something nice
but it's not a gift.
Somebody's got to
give that to you.
>> LG: Right.
True, true.
They could keep it and
it wouldn't be a gift.
You know you mentioned
this concept to me and I,
and I went home and I looked
at-we were having a stressful
night and a stressful
morning and I thought
about what you said and
I noticed the absence
of laughter happening
in our conversations
because it was time
crunch, I'd over scheduled
and it was causing
stress in the household
and what you just said
completely resonated with me
at that moment and I
was, it was almost the,
it was the alarm clock.
>> YS: Yes.
>> LG: that went off.
Oh my God, what Yakov
said there's no laughter.
What happened?
There's no connection.
>> YS: Yes.
>> LG: We were not
connecting and we're all going
in separate directions
and I thought about that.
Now a week prior we
had great giggles
and great fun time together
but in that moment, you know,
in the last maybe day
or so it was gone.
>> YS: With a great
awareness though.
I mean think about this,
when the alarm goes
off you don't panic,
you just go okay
time to wake up.
What a great analogy.
Time to wake up to what's
lacking, what's missing and then
if you go to gift, g-i-f-t,
give, importance, fun and time.
Now if you, a lot of times go
straight for laughter right?
They try to make the
other person laugh
and it doesn't work sometimes
because they're not getting-it's
like saying I want sex but I
don't want to give foreplay
or I don't want to
spend time with you
and I just want the
final result.
It doesn't work but if
you focus and say okay,
the alarm went off, how
can I give importance,
fun and time then
it's by numbers.
You can say I can
text that person.
I can plan dinner together.
I can, and then laughter will
become a byproduct of that.
>> LG: That perfectly said.
It's little tiny steps.
Yeah, that alarm went off in
my head and I went oh gosh,
what we was talking about isn't
happening, but you're right,
it doesn't have to be a
huge, monumental phone,
conversation of this happened.
It can be little things
that result in that.
>> YS: I love that
analogy, alarm.
>> LG: Well you helped
me with that.
>> YS: You're welcome.
>> LG: So you do give
people these amazing,
you give people the gift of
laughter because you have,
you're a brilliant comedian
and you have wonderful timing
but I didn't know you had
this much of a gift behind it,
but I'm going to give
people an opportunity
to laugh for a second.
Take a look at Yakov in his,
this is your Branson
Missouri theatre show right?
>> YS: It is but it's the
show that I did on Broadway
and New York Times
gave it a great review
but it's the same show that I'm
doing now in Los Angeles yeah.
>> LG: Watch the Gift of
Laughter from Yakov Smirnoff.
Take a look.
[ Video Playing ]
That just shows so much of
the transformational aspects
of laughter and you make people
laugh for a living but it is,
it is innately what is in
every single relationship
that we have is laughter.
You spent some time
with a wonderful couple
that you learned a lot from.
Tell me about them.
>> YS: They're amazing.
They, I actually saw them on
the Tonight Show with Jay Leno
and they just celebrated
their 75th wedding anniversary
and I don't know anybody
who'd celebrate that kind
of anniversary so I
reached out to them
and they were very receptive and
I was doing a show, a talk show,
in Branson and I invited them to
come to Branson and they agreed
to come, and we sent a limo to
pick them up from the airport
and the driver was told
there would be a couple
with their son.
So he brought a baby car seat.
He said how old is
the son, they said 70,
so we might need one soon.
But anyway, so they got there
and when I saw them they were
giggling, they were laughing,
they were holding
hands and I said
to them, what is your secret?
They said we're afraid
to fall down.
>> LG: [Laughing] They're
holding hands to stay up.
>> YS: Yes and they're adorable
so I, we became good friends.
They live in Thousand
Oaks California
and I'm friends with them.
I actually am going to
dinner with them tomorrow.
>> LG: Now what did
you learn from them?
What was the biggest take away?
>> YS: All of this what I
am sharing about the gift,
came from conversations with
them because of when I was,
you know, I said to them
how, how did you get this?
You sustained this
honeymoon for all these years
and I said what made it?
And she said, we
didn't understand this
because when we got
married it was scary,
it was depression time.
We had no money, we were young
and my husband wanted
me to be happy.
He made a promise
and he said I know
that you're happy
when you're laughing.
So he said, so he told me,
he said I knew what would
make her happy is a fur coat
and we didn't have any
money so he said I went out
and bought her a mouse trap,
and the little card
said, it's a starter kit.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: And she said they
didn't get the fur coat
but I got something better,
I got the gift of laughter
and it's lasted a lifetime.
>> LG: Let's take a look at
this beautiful couple and,
and learn a little
something from them.
[ Video Playing ]
So you've spent a lot
of time with this couple
and are you still
continuing to learn from them?
>> YS: Oh yeah, oh yeah, every
time I see them I am amazed
because they just celebrated now
their 80th wedding anniversary
and it's just so heartwarming
to see how caring they are
and her health is getting
pretty, not so good anymore
and he's still driving,
he's still,
he just celebrated
his 100th birthday.
>> LG: What?
>> YS: Yeah.
He did, on December
nine and he called me
and he said Yakov we're going
to be celebrating my 100th
birthday could you come be a
part of this?
And I said I'd love to but
I have shows in Branson
until December 9th so I
won't be able to make it,
and he goes well we can
postpone the celebration.
I said if I was 100 I would
not postpone the celebration.
So, but they did postpone it,
I came and spent some time
with them and his daughter
was sharing with me
that she's nervous
that he's driving
so she took away his car keys.
So he went and bought
his new car.
>> LG: [Laughing] At 100?
>> YS: 100, yes.
>> LG: Well I mean this
just goes to show you
that laughter leads to
longevity if anything.
>> YS: That's true.
That is true.
>> LG: So let me ask you
about your perspective
on relationships and
especially in this country
and as opposed to, I
mean was divorce the norm
or not the norm where you lived?
>> YS: No.
>> LG: Not at all.
>> YS: In Russia I
honestly don't know anyone
who had gone through divorce.
All my classmates,
everybody stayed together
but it was also survival
environment
where people teamed
together, not just them
but the whole family
to just find food,
find shelter, all of that.
We are way past that.
America, we live in
a comfort society,
we have all of our needs met.
What I think happens at
that place we become,
we're switching our mode.
Now we really need to
understand and give those gifts
to one another to
be able to sustain.
If we don't meet, don't
give the gift laughter dies,
next goes sex, next goes the
whole intimacy and everything
and then because we have
luxury of affordable living,
people make money, they
say well why should I stay
with this person?
>> LG: Because it's
not fun anymore.
>> YS: It's not working anymore.
So I really very much
dedicate my life now
at this point recognizing
this formula and pattern,
that if you give people
tools that actually can work
and can create that sexual
polarity and understand,
and that's what my
whole show is about,
it's understanding the
natural gifts that we have
and getting humor from things
that don't, we don't have,
because man and women,
we're just different species
and that's where the
humor comes from.
I mean if you look at even just
laughter itself it's fascinating
because EHarmony.com,
they ask everybody,
they have over 10
million subscribers,
like what is the number
one quality you look
in your partner?
And the number one quality
by far is sense of humor.
>> LG: Oh really?
>> YS: Sense of humor way
bigger than financial security,
education, anything,
even the looks.
Sense of humor, number one.
However as I was doing my
research for my master's degree,
I realized that women
want somebody
who will make them laugh
and men want somebody
who will laugh at their jokes.
>> LG: Oh well that's
a perfect combination.
Well you would think.
Yes, yes.
>> YS: He doesn't want you
to laugh in the bedroom,
like pointing and laughing
[multiple speakers] not good,
but when we, when men notice
that he made a woman laugh
we feel like super heroes.
I mean it just, it's
transformation and we can do
at that point anything.
We can pick up our own socks
from the bedroom
floor if women laugh.
See? So
>> LG: I need to
laugh more at home.
>> YS: Yes.
Woman laughter is
what men are after.
>> LG: Good one, that's another
name of your show, the one,
the show that you're doing
now is Happily Ever Laughter.
It's all about that.
Now your parents, we have a
good picture of them here.
How long were they married?
>> YS: Yes, they were married
52 years and laughter was
in abundance even
though life was not easy.
However, they knew
how to give the gifts.
My Dad knew how to
make my Mom laugh.
I mean it would be like, he
would say something to me
like Yakov, do you
know why your Mother
and I have a great relationship?
Because when we got married
we made an agreement.
I'm not going to run her life
and I'm not going
to run my life.
>> LG: [Laughing]
>> YS: My Mom would laugh and
she would forget everything.
>> LG: Did anything change
when they moved to America?
>> YS: A lot of things changed.
Good changes for years.
It was that they, they
became so happy because added
to everything was my success,
you know, and they lived
in L.A., I bought them
an apartment building
that they were managing
for years
and [inaudible] was a
really [inaudible] place,
it was kind of their environment
where they had tenants
and they created
their little place
>> LG: Community.
>> YS: Yeah and my Dad was
proud, he was fixing thing,
he was, and Mom was taking
care of all the rents and all
of that stuff so they
were busy and happy
and that was joy
to me, you know.
When my Dad passed away
he made my Mom laugh
until the last moments.
I remember, you know, he was
ill and he said to me Yakov,
do you realize that
even now your Mother
and I are intimate
almost every day.
Almost Monday, almost
Tuesday, almost Wednesday,
and again my Mom would crack up
and even though it was
sad everything was okay.
>> LG: And your Mom,
she developed a sense
of humor eventually?
She could dish it out.
>> YS: Mom had a
different sense of humor.
She did, she did.
She did something that I will
never forget because it was,
it was when she passed it was
difficult because she'd moved
to Branson and would come
to every one of my shows
and she would giggle and
she would sit near the stage
so I could hear her laugh
and it was music to my ears
because I could prolong
that what she was
missing with my Dad.
And then when she passed I was
closing up the apartment of hers
and I looked, the last thing
I had to look under the sink
to see if there was
anything there
and there was a package
there and it was wrapped
in the brown paper from grocery
store bag and it was neatly tied
with the string and in my Mom's
handwriting it said "For Yakov"
so I opened it and inside the
package was that old coffee can
from years ago and inside the
coffee can was a little black
and white picture of
my Mom, my Dad and I
on the day we left Russia.
And there was a little
note attached
and it was hard to reach in.
>> LG: Oh my God.
>> YS: The note was,
Yakov don't be sad.
Your Dad and I are together
now and we're probably laughing
and we love you very much
and it was just signed Mom
and I'm not ashamed to tell
you I was all choked up
and then I looked down from my
tears I see there's something
else written on the piece
of paper and it said,
P.S. By the way we're
out of coffee.
>> LG: Oh my God.
>> YS: That sad moment
I burst out laughing.
>> LG: You laughing and she
left all of that for you.
What an incredible moment.
>> YS: But think about what
you and I talked about,
the connection even though
she wasn't here she left a
connection and the
laughter was a confirmation
of that transformation.
>> LG: Of that transformation.
Still even after, wow.
What a story.
And so in your experiences
and in your future relationships
what would you do different?
>> YS: Pay attention
to the laughter first.
I mean because like
Raymond and Erma,
they are great examples of this.
He says, he said
here is what I do.
I said, do you tell her jokes?
And he said no, he said no I
don't tell jokes but what I do,
I pay attention how
important she is to me
because the word important
comes from, he told me this,
from Greek work in port and the
items that were coming by boat
across the ocean, they
were the most valuable,
the most expensive,
the more cherished
and he said that's
how I treat her.
And, and then I give her,
I create fun experiences
and I spend time with her and
then I listen for laughter.
You can't be more clear to what
this 100 year old guy says.
He said if you can get her
to laugh you can get
her to do anything.
Now this, this, this is
pretty impressive at that age.
So I'm saying that's,
listen for laughter,
what you said you did yesterday.
You listened, it was an absence
of it and then you said ah,
a wakeup call, an alarm,
and then bring back
importance, fun and time.
>> LG: And that's, I've
got to go because I've got
to go call my husband
because [laughing] yeah.
Because yeah I'm just going
through in my mind that yeah.
I got stuck and the
laughter left.
>> YS: And everybody does.
We're busy; we're busy
but pay attention.
>> LG: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Well I love how you say,
when you reference America
you say we Americans
and you did a beautiful,
beautiful, beautiful mural
that you're very well
known for after the fact.
It was anonymously done at the
time at the Ground Zero site
of the 9-11 destruction and it's
really, it was really a gift
by the way that you gave to
Americans and just it was
so heartfelt as well,
which is really the essence
of who you are, and I wanted
people to know that about you
and know this side of you.
Yes he's a brilliant comedian,
yes he's had a great career
and yes he's an incredibly
connected, sensitive man.
Talking to you like you're
not here but take a look
at this, this beautiful mural.
[ Video Playing ]
That was a wonderful
contribution
that you gave there and, and it
really shows who you truly are.
I didn't know that you
were an artist though.
I did not know that.
>> YS: Thank you.
I really, it was, it came
through me this mural.
I really, I painted it on
the night of the attack.
I spent a year trying to
get it up there and almost,
it was almost impossible in
those because security was
so high and all of that.
However the circumstance came
together and the people who own
that building that was
damaged in the attack,
the scaffolding had this white,
canvas looking thing and I,
I just, when I saw it I
said it has to be up there,
it has to be up there.
So I approached them,
they live in Ohio,
and they said we'll let you
put it up for ten days as long
as you pay for everything
and get the right permits,
and this was August and we
wanted it to be during September
so I couldn't, so I
went to union workers
who were still union workers,
who were very upset with me
in bringing this topic
up to them, and they came
and they were, because they said
we used to take, carry bodies,
dead bodies out of this crater
and we don't want to be here.
And I said, please
help me and they said,
what do you want us to do?
And I showed them the mockup of
this painting and they got quiet
and then they passed it around,
they stopped cussing
so which I knew
>> LG: It was a good sign.
>> YS: Yeah it was a good
sign and they said okay.
And I said okay what?
They said we'll do it.
I said how much?
And they said, you don't have
enough money to pay for it.
I said okay so then what?
They said we'll do it anyway.
>> LG: Oh wow.
>> YS: And I said, I
said do I have permits?
And I showed them what I had
and they said no you don't,
and you will never get them
but we will do it anyway.
>> LG: Divinely guided,
my goodness wow.
Mission, passion.
>> YS: I said why and the
leader of the union said
because I want to, I want to
drive by with my son and I want
to show him this
painting and I want to,
I want to tell him I helped
to put it up in the skies.
And here's the gift.
I painted this but 50 union
workers came on Saturday,
August 7th, September 7th,
five, five, four days before
and they worked for 12 hours,
all of them, didn't get a penny
for that and they put
it up and it was there
for a year and a half.
>> LG: Oh my gosh.
What a gift.
What a gift and what a country.
[Laughing] Yakov
thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
I love talking with you.
>> YS: Thank you.
>> LG: And if you like to watch
my replay with Yakov Smirnoff
or share it with your friends,
go to Gaiamtv.com and thank you
so much and until next time I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]